Topicals are medications that
are applied directly to a surface
like the skin or, um, the nasal
passages or even inside the mouth.
So the different types of
topicals for plaque psoriasis
include a variety of medications.
The most commonly prescribed medications
for plaque psoriasis are topical steroids.
As widely available now,  our tar
and a compound called anthralin,
the mechanism of action for these
medications is definitely different.
And, and for some of the medications, we
aren't really sure how they work, but we
know the effect that it has for psoriasis.
So they're usually going
to be anti inflammatory.
Um, vitamin D analogs.
We also use retinoids, um, to
Zeratine to be more specific.
There are other newer medications
that are anti inflammatory.
Roflumilaz, Tepenerof are the two newer
medications that allow once daily dosing.
And then some of the older
medications that we use for
plaque psoriasis that aren't.
or anti proliferative.
Steroids have a little
bit of both effects.
Um, vitamin D, or calcipatriene
is a vitamin D analog that will
have a anti proliferative effect.
Um, the newer medications,
roflumilazine, tepenaroff, will
have an anti inflammatory effect.
And retinoids, like tazerotine, will have
an effect on the proliferation as well.
So really slowing down the rate
at which those skin cells will
build on top of each other.
For plaque psoriasis, we can
use combinations of steroids
and vitamin D based creams, as
well as steroids and retinoids.
And then now we have widely available
medications that actually combine the two
together to get better treatment effect.
So you definitely can combine
treatments and some of the
medications come combined already.
The most commonly prescribed medication
for plaque psoriasis is usually a
topical steroid, and a potent one.
And the higher the potency of steroids,
the more likely you are to potentially
have steroid side effects if you're using
them, especially on a long term basis.
We know that plaque psoriasis is
a chronic disease, so we expect
patients to use the medications on
and off for long periods of time.
We may have to worry about thinning of
the skin, um, stretch marks in the areas.
Sometimes you can see more
prominent, um, blood vessels
under the skin in those areas.
So that is why we will recommend using
them for short periods of time and
taking breaks from corticosteroids.
So the benefits of using topical
steroids for plaque psoriasis is
that you often see the fastest
improvement when you compare to other
topical medications for psoriasis.
When you look at the benefits of
tizaratine, which is a retinoid, you
can really see a reduction in the
overproliferation of those skin cells and
As opposed to steroids, when you stop the
Tazerotine, you can sometimes see, um,
a remission or a remittive effect where
you don't have to use the medication
for, you know, a few weeks to months.
Um, same thing happens for, um,
Tepenterof, which is a newer once
a day application medication.
You will be able to actually
stop the medication after two
months and you may even have a
remittive effect for four months.